>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, let's talk
about the exercise on composition.
We could either implement compose and
then pipe in terms of compose or reverse.
I'm actually gonna do the reverse and
the reason is purely for simplicity.
Because pipe goes left to right, I can
use a very convenient for loop for that.
But there are lots of ways to
implement either compose or pipe,
you could have used reduce or
reduce right or other utilities like that.
I'm just gonna use a simple for loop.
So, pipe is going to take
in a list of functions.
And I'm gonna gather those
up into an array called fns,
which stands for functions and
it needs to return back a new function.
That was piped, and that is going
to receive a single input value
that it passes along to the first one.
Now, my strategy here is to be able
to handle any number of functions,
essentially I want to call
the first function and
then whatever it returns, save that.
And if there's another function,
that becomes the input and
then save that output.
And then just keep doing that until
there's no more functions, and
then I have my output.
So I'm just gonna set up a simple for
loop, let fn of fns,
and I'm going to say,
v = fn, passing in v.
So in other words,
take the current input, whatever it is.
Pass it into the current function,
and capture that output.
And then iterate the loop again.
If there's another function,
do that again, and again, and again.
And at the very end, return v.
>> Kyle Simpson: That should
handle any number of functions.
To implement the compose function,
I gather all of the functions
into an array called fns.
And I need to pass fns to pipe but
I need to reverse the order.
So I'm gonna say return pipe, I'm gonna
pass in fns that has been reversed.
I'll spread fns that has been reversed.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: What if we started
with compose instead of pipe?
>> Kyle Simpson: You can start with
compose, it's just a little less
clean because your for of loop,
if you choose to use a loop,
needs to loop over the reverse of
the arrays rather than the array itself.
All right,
let's test this just to make sure.
>> Kyle Simpson: And we get all trues.